hi everyone welcome to my kitchen I'm
Juliet and today I'm gonna show you how
to make some really easy play-doh so
we're all saying in looking for fun
things to do something fun to do with
food just stuff that you have in your
cupboards so I'm gonna tell you what
you're gonna need to make this you're
gonna need a hundred thirty grams of
plain flour 70 grams of warm water
quality grams of fine sea salt 30 grams
of vegetable oil and any food colorings
you like so I've actually been busy
making loads of food colorings so I'm
gonna show you how to make the dough all
you need to do is pour the salt into the
flour and then just get your fingers and
give it a bit of a mix through then pull
your vegetable oil into the water so
that you guys don't leave it playing
white or I'm going to add some coloring
so I'm gonna use some orange a little
cocktail stick I just got into my water
and oil then you just need to pour your
liquid into the brown mix and this is
the fun bit get stuck in with your hands
and just bring it together to make a
nice dough
altogether what you'll see is gradually
all of the powered leaf flower around
the edge will pull together into a
squidgy doughy born in the middle of the
bowl if you find yours a little bit dry
or a little bit where you can add a
touch more flower a bit but this is
about the perfect recipe in my view so
much you could it also get rid of all
pop it onto your surface and just give
it a neat between your palms like that
just to bring it all together and make
it lovely enviable bits marbled food
coloring there I'm just gonna keep
moving it it's all one color so that's
ready you can see it's nice and squishy
all right I've been busy making loads of
colors so I've made the reason advance
and as you can see the best way to store
away is just wrap it in either cling or
just get chickpea bag and these will
last in the fridge for ages just keep
them a little wrapped if you leave them
open girls dry it out
okay so now's the fun bit time to get
creative and I love doing stuff like
this because I actually make loads of
things out of sugar paste or multi hand
modeling chocolate I love doing cake
decorating and this is kind of similar
thing so it's 1/6 are playing so just
have fun with this and if you make
something it goes wrong it's pretty to
just screw it up and start again
a few things so you can really work with
anything you've got around your house
really so I'll actually have quite a lot
of moving tools
cookie cutters their findings to use but
you can use really simple things like
cocktail sticks and pizza wheel or you
can cut round pops these might support
straws or if you acting a bit of craft
you might have some of these put them
playing morning tools very fun as well
let's talk about rolling and cutting so
obviously it is a dough so one of the
things you can do with it
it's just have a rolling pin and roll
and cut out shapes because it's easily
and under make a chip so it's a bit
sticky I think it would when you're
rolling out pastry you can use a little
bit of extra flour roll it out
let's check yes guys this little beak so
I've made some fun journey yeah I'm
gonna just add a bit of tiny ball orange
I just make him give him a little big
and then while I'm here I'm gonna give
this a little some little orange feet so
this is very simple hair modeling you
can roll it into sausages balls or cones
that's how most shape start so I'm just
gonna do a soft edge make into a little
V that will do little feet lastly what's
he need I'll stick the chick I'm going
to just snap this up so don't wait to
dry out because I should be playing with
this for the rest of the day so hand
modeling is really easy you just need to
have some really simple tools most
things start out their origins as a ball
a sausage or a cone I'm gonna show you
how to make Hedgehog why don't you put
in some rough ball I'm just gonna roll
it on one side so I want to do a kind of
teardrop shape give the Hedgehog his
little face at the front i soften them
at the surface best perhaps the
beginnings of my Hedgehog it doesn't
look very Hedgehog II yet
I'm just gonna grab my appearances this
what you need to do is just use your
scissors to cut up little spikes
I'm leaving the front clear there we go
and now I'm just going to give him two
little eyes
I even get a tiny little tiny nose smell
all over of pink how cute in so many of
them over there this friend mr. check
the next thing I'll show you is rainbow
so I'm just going to take a couple of
pieces of white just make a cloud just
use my fingers to make it just a few
sausages of my different colors create a
rainbow in the sausage just kind of put
it down see how how big you need it to
be you can use a knife to trim it I'm
gonna get it roughly the size I need so
I'm gonna make a rainbow like that
[Music]
quite fancy doing some purple so you can
just turn like you would if you're doing
painting in your mixing colors you can
just take two colors to make another
color so I'm just gonna make a little
bit purple so I'm just gonna smush
together my pink and blue that's gonna
give me a lighter so you can do that
with any colors
my rainbow gonna be forming them down
like this I'll just give them a trim off
like that
when it's a rainbow I saw some piece of
some cake dresser I'll make my clouds
blocking sparkly mystery flowers and
rainbows okay so that's your mo chick
and Hedgehog
lastly now I couldn't do it's doing
play-doh you guess what I'm gonna make
I'm gonna make a pill emoji so to make
um your poop emoji you need a nice long
sausage and then I'm gonna taper it off
on one end make it kind of swirly pointy
bit and then just literally wind it up
just suck it up of itself
picky bit to ice here
so let's get one piece and just break it
in half and just make two balls needs
but one there one there and then the
smiley mouth so again just a small
sausage just guys I'm about there so he
just needs his little eyeballs I've got
an edible in here so just put the detail
on like that there it is perfect little
boom oh gee so I hope you enjoyed
watching I hope you really enjoy making
this play-doh and do send us lovely
videos or pictures of you making yours
I'd love to see them so hashtag stay
home get cooking
thanks for joining me and I'll be back
soon loads more funding stevia spoons
bye so goodbye mister food bye
I miss the chick see you later
you